NAME
	light

SYNOPSIS
	light [OPTION]... BSPFILE

DESCRIPTION
	light reads a Quake .bsp file and calculates light and shadow
	information based on the entity definitions contained in the .bsp.
	The .bsp file is updated with the new light data upon completion,
	overwriting any existing lighting data.

OPTIONS
	-threads n     Set number of threads explicitly. By default light will
	               attempt to detect the number of CPUs/cores available.

	-extra         Calculate extra samples (2x2) and average the results
	               for smoother shadows.

	-extra4        Calculate even more samples (4x4) and average the
	               results for smoother shadows.

	-light n       Set a global minimum light level. Overrides default
	               light level set in worldspawn.

	-nominlimit    Allow negative lights to reduce surface lighting below
	               the global minumum light level.

	-dist n        Scales the fade distance of all lights by a factor of n.
	               If n > 1 lights fade more quickly with distance and if
	               n < 1, lights fade more slowly with distance and light
	               reaches further.

	-range n       Scales the brightness range of all lights without
	               affecting their fade discance. Values of n > 0.5 makes
	               lights brighter and n < 0.5 makes lights less bright.
	               The same effect can be achieved on individual lights by
	               adjusting both the "light" and "wait" attributes.

	-gate n        Set a minimum light level, below which can be considered
	               zero brightness.  This can dramatically speed up
	               processing when there are large numbers of lights with
	               inverse or inverse square falloff. In most cases, values
	               less than 1.0 will cause no discernable visual
	               differences.  Default 0.001.

	-lit           Force generation of a .lit file, even if your map does
	               not have any coloured lights. By default, light will
	               automatically generate the .lit file when needed.

	NOTE: The plan for coloured lighting support in the future is to detect
	      entities with coloured light fields and automatically output a
	      .lit file in this case. I may add a -nocolour option if there is
	      a significant speed advantage.

ENTITY PARAMETERS

    WORLDSPAWN PARAMETERS

	"light" "n"

	Set a global minimum light level of "n" across the whole map.  This is
	an easy way to eliminate completely dark areas of the level, however
	you may lose some contrast as a result, so use with care.

	"_sunlight" "n"

	Set the brightness of the sunlight coming from an unseen sun in the
        sky.  Sky brushes (or more accurately bsp leafs with sky contents) will
	emit sunlight at an angle specified by the "_sun_mangle" paramter.

	"_sun_mangle" "x y z"

	Specifies the direction of sunlight using yaw(x), pitch(y) and roll(z)
	in degrees. Yaw specifies the angle around the Z-axis from 0 to 359
	degrees and pitch specifies the angle from 90 (straight up) to -90
	(straight down). Roll has no effect, so use any value (e.g. 0).

	"_sunlight_color" "r g b"

	Specify red(r), green(g) and blue(b) components for the colour of the
	sunlight. RGB component values are between -255 and 255. Negative
	values will cause colour subtraction from light cast by other entities.

    MODEL PARAMETERS

	The following parameters can be used on any entity with a brush model.

	"_minlight" "n"

	Set the minimum light level for any surface of the brush model.

	"_mincolor" "r g b"

	Specify red(r), green(g) and blue(b) components for the colour of the
	minlight. RGB component values are between 0 and 255.

	"_shadow" "1"

	This model will cast shadows.  Note that this doesn't magically give
	Quake dynamic lighting powers, so the shadows will not move if the
	model moves.

    LIGHT PARAMETERS

	Light parameters can be used in any entity with a classname starting
	with the first five letters "light". E.g. "light", "light_globe",
	"light_flame_small_yellow", etc.

	"light" "n"

	Set the light intensity. Negative values are also allowed and will
	cause the entity to subtract light cast by other entities. Default 300.

	"wait" "n"

	Scale the fade distance of the light by "n". Values of n > 1 make the
	light fade more quickly with distance, and values < 1 make the light
	fade more slowly (and thus reach further). Default 1.

	"delay" "n"

	Select an attenuation formaula for the light:
	  0 => Linear attenuation (default)
	  1 => 1/x attenuation
	  2 => 1/(x^2) attenuation
	  3 => No attenuation (light stays same brightness at any distance)
	  4 => "local minlight" - No attenuation and like minlight, it won't
	       raise the lighting above it's light value. Unlike minlight, it
	       will only affect surfaces within line of sight of the entity.
	  5 => 1/(x^2) attenuation, but slightly more attenuated and without
	       the extra bright effect that "delay 2" has near the source.

	"_color" "r g b"

	Specify red(r), green(g) and blue(b) components for the colour of the
	light. RGB component values are between -255 and 255. Negative values
	will cause colour subtraction from light cast by other entities.

	"target" "name"

	Turns the light into a spotlight, with the direction of light being
	towards another entity with it's "targetname" parameter set to "name".

	"mangle" "x y z"

	Turns the light into a spotlight and specifies the direction of light
	using yaw(x), pitch(y) and roll(z) in degrees. Yaw specifies the angle
	around the Z-axis from 0 to 359	degrees and pitch specifies the angle
	from 90 (straight up) to -90 (straight down). Roll has no effect, so
	use any value (e.g. 0).  Often easier than the "target" method.

	"angle" "n"

	Specifies the angle in degrees for a spotlight cone. Default 40.

	"_softangle" "n"

	Specifies the angle in degrees for an inner spotlight cone (must be
	less than the "angle" cone. Creates a softer transition between the
	full brightness of the inner cone to the edge of the outer cone.
	Default 0 (disabled).

	"targetname" "name"

	Turns the light into a switchable light, toggled by another entity
	targeting it's name.

	"style" "n"

	Set the animated light style. Default 0.

AUTHOR
	Written by Kevin Shanahan (aka Tyrann)
	Based on source provided by id Software
	http://disenchant.net

REPORTING BUGS
	Please send bug reports to tyrann@disenchant.net.
	Improvements to the documentation are welcome and encouraged.

COPYRIGHT
	Copyright © 2013 Kevin Shanahan
	Copyright © 1997 id Software
	License GPLv2+:  GNU GPL version 2 or later
		<http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl2.html>.
	This is free software:  you are free to change and redistribute it.
	There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

SEE ALSO
	qbsp, vis, quake.
